README.md, before:

# The Data Collection Project
With the amount of data in our lives growing exponentially, data analytics has become a hugely important part of the way businesses and organisations are run. Therefore, companies need analysts who can scrape the web for data in sophisticated and efficient ways. Web scraping allows data to be collected and collated in specific formats from the internet which can then be used to help make informed business decisions. 

This project will focus on the data collection aspect of a chosen website, [Crytpo.com](https://crypto.com/eea) using [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/) and [Chromedriver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/) to automate the data scraping.

## Milestone 1
- The data of interest on the chosen site was key information on the top 50 crytocurrencies by market cap, in particular their name, market cap, price and 24H change.
- A blank scraper class was created to be populated with the methods needed to get the necessary data.
- Initial methods:
    - Accept cookies by using Selenium's built in .click() feature.
    - Navigate to the price page by using Selenium's built in .click() feature.
    - Skip tour of the price page by using Selenium's built in .click() feature.
- For all the methods above, Selenium located the required button through the XPATH of the element that was taken from the HTML of the webpage.
<br/><br>

## Milestone 2
- The most efficient way to scrape data from each of the cryptocurrencies would be to iterate through a list of links for the details page of each coin.
- The top 50 coins by market cap are displayed on the price page (already navigate to) and each contain an href attribute that specifies the URL of the details page for each coin.
- A method was created to scrape these links and put them into a list using Selenium's *find_elements* and* *get_attribute* features.
```Python
table = driver.find_elements(by=By.CSS_SELECTOR, value=".css-1v8x7dw [href]")
links = [elem.get_attribute('href') for elem in table]
```

## Milestone 3
- With a list of links created, a method to collect the data from these links was written.
- A list of dictionaries for each coin containing the data points mentioned earlier was created as the output for this method.
- Each data point has its own XPATH within the HTML, however, for some of the pages in the list, this XPATH was slightly different.
- Therefore, for some most of the data points, the CSS_SELECTOR was used as the locator as this didn't differ between any of the links. 
```Python
market_cap = driver.find_element(by=By.CSS_SELECTOR, value = ".css-1c8c51m").text
dict_data['market cap'] = market_cap
```
## Milestone 4
- The final step was to implement code that would iterate through the list of links and get the required data. 
- This step was built outside of the scraper class and within an instance of the class (crypto).
```Python
 link_list = []
link_list.extend(crypto.get_list_of_coin_links()) # list of links to top 50 coins by market cap
data_list = []
for link in range(50):
    coin_link = link_list[link] # link to a cryptocurrency (e.g., ethereum) details page where data is scraped
    coin = crypto.get_data(link=coin_link)
    data_list.append(coin)
```

Commit message:

add info on json file

README.md, after:

# The Data Collection Project
With the amount of data in our lives growing exponentially, data analytics has become a hugely important part of the way businesses and organisations are run. Therefore, companies need analysts who can scrape the web for data in sophisticated and efficient ways. Web scraping allows data to be collected and collated in specific formats from the internet which can then be used to help make informed business decisions. 

This project will focus on the data collection aspect of a chosen website, [Crytpo.com](https://crypto.com/eea) using [Selenium](https://www.selenium.dev/) and [Chromedriver](https://chromedriver.chromium.org/) to automate the data scraping.

## Milestone 1
- The data of interest on the chosen site was key information on the top 50 crytocurrencies by market cap, in particular their name, market cap, price and 24H change.
- A blank scraper class was created to be populated with the methods needed to get the necessary data.
- Initial methods:
    - Accept cookies by using Selenium's built in .click() feature.
    - Navigate to the price page by using Selenium's built in .click() feature.
    - Skip tour of the price page by using Selenium's built in .click() feature.
- For all the methods above, Selenium located the required button through the XPATH of the element that was taken from the HTML of the webpage.
<br/><br>

## Milestone 2
- The most efficient way to scrape data from each of the cryptocurrencies would be to iterate through a list of links for the details page of each coin.
- The top 50 coins by market cap are displayed on the price page (already navigate to) and each contain an href attribute that specifies the URL of the details page for each coin.
- A method was created to scrape these links and put them into a list using Selenium's *find_elements* and* *get_attribute* features.
```Python
table = driver.find_elements(by=By.CSS_SELECTOR, value=".css-1v8x7dw [href]")
links = [elem.get_attribute('href') for elem in table]
```

## Milestone 3
- With a list of links created, a method to collect the data from these links was written.
- A list of dictionaries for each coin containing the data points mentioned earlier was created as the output for this method.
- Each data point has its own XPATH within the HTML, however, for some of the pages in the list, this XPATH was slightly different.
- Therefore, for some most of the data points, the CSS_SELECTOR was used as the locator as this didn't differ between any of the links. 
```Python
market_cap = driver.find_element(by=By.CSS_SELECTOR, value = ".css-1c8c51m").text
dict_data['market cap'] = market_cap
```
## Milestone 4
- The final step was to implement code that would iterate through the list of links and get the required data. 
- This step was built outside of the scraper class and within an instance of the class (crypto).
```Python
link_list = []
link_list.extend(crypto.get_list_of_coin_links()) # list of links to top 50 coins by market cap
data_list = []
for link in range(50):
    coin_link = link_list[link] # link to a cryptocurrency (e.g., ethereum) details page where data is scraped
    coin = crypto.get_data(link=coin_link)
    data_list.append(coin)
```
- Finally, the *data_list* was saved to a *raw_data* folder in .json file.
- This allows for future analysis of the data.
```Python
with open("raw_data/data.json", "w") as file:
    json.dump(data_list, file, indent=2)
```
